website/docs/cartesian-chart.md, before:

# Cartesian Chart

The `CartesianChart` component is the core component of `victory-native`. Its core responsibilities are:

- accepting raw data that you'd eventually like to chart, as well as some configuration around charting (such as options for axes, etc.)
- transforming that raw data into a format that can be easily accessed and used for charting with other `victory-native` components.

## Example

The example below shows a basic use of the `CartesianChart`.

```tsx
import { View } from "react-native";
import { CartesianChart, Line } from "victory-native";
import { useFont } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
// 👇 import a font file you'd like to use for tick labels
import inter from "../assets/inter-medium.ttf";

function MyChart() {
  const font = useFont(inter, 12);

  return (
    <View style={{ height: 300 }}>
      <CartesianChart
        data={DATA} // 👈 specify your data
        xKey="day" // 👈 specify data key for x-axis
        yKeys={["lowTmp", "highTmp"]} // 👈 specify data keys used for y-axis
        axisOptions={{ font }} // 👈 we'll generate axis labels using given font.
      >
        {/* 👇 render function exposes various data, such as points. */}
        {({ points }) => (
          // 👇 and we'll use the Line component to render a line path.
          <Line points={points.highTmp} color="red" strokeWidth={3} />
        )}
      </CartesianChart>
    </View>
  );
}

const DATA = Array.from({ length: 31 }, (_, i) => ({
  day: i,
  lowTmp: 20 + 10 * Math.random(),
  highTmp: 40 + 30 * Math.random(),
}));
```

## Props

### `data` (required)

An array of objects to be used as data points for the chart.

### `xKey` (required)

A `string` value indicating the _key_ of each `data[number]` object to be used on the independent (x) axis for charting. E.g. `"day"` if you want to use the `"day"` field of the data points for the x-axis.

### `yKeys` (required)

A `string[]` array of string indicating the _keys_ of each `data[number]` object to be used on the dependent (y) axis for charting. E.g. `yKeys={["lowTmp", "highTmp"]}` if you want to chart both high and low temperatures on the y-axis and those values have keys of `lowTmp` and `highTmp` respectively.

This prop accepts an _array_ of strings because the `CartesianChart` supports multiple ranges (e.g. plotting both high and low temperatures), and the `CartesianChart` component needs to know about all of the slices of the dataset you plan to plot (to e.g. determine the total range of the chart).

### `children` (required)

The `children` prop is a render function whose sole argument is an object that exposes transformed data for you to use in your drawing operations. For example, the `children` render function's argument has a `points` field that exposes a version of your input data that's transformed to be plotted on the Canvas (see [the Example section](#example) above for an example of this).

**See the [Render Function Fields](#render-function-fields) section for an outline of all of the available fields on the render function argument.**

The `children` function will render its Skia elements inside of [a clipping group](https://shopify.github.io/react-native-skia/docs/group/#clipping-operations) that sit inside of the bounds of the charts axes, so that your charting elements do not overflow outside of your axes.

### `padding`

A `number` or an object of shape `{ left?: number; right?: number; top?: number; bottom?: number; }` that specifies that padding between the outer bounds of the Skia canvas and where the charting bounds will occur.

For example, passing `padding={{ left: 20, bottom: 20 }}` will add 20 Density Independent Pixels (DIPs) of space to the bottom and left of the chart, but have the chart "bleed" to the right and top. Passing `padding={20}` will add 20 DIPs of space to all sides.

### `domainPadding`

A `number` or an object of shape `{ left?: number; right?: number; top?: number; bottom?: number; }` that specifies that padding between the outer bounds of the _charting area_ (e.g. where the axes lie) and where chart elements will be plotted.

For example, passing `padding={{ left: 20, right: 20 }}` will add 20 DIPs of space between the edges of the chart and where the line/bar/area graph will start.

### `axisOptions`

DOCS:TODO:

### `activePressSharedValue`

The `activePressSharedValue` prop allows you to pass in Reanimated `SharedValue`s that will be used to track the user's "press" gesture on the chart. This is generally used for creating some sort of tooltip/active value indicator. See the [Basic Tooltip Guide](./guides/basic-tooltip.md) for more in-depth information on how to use this prop.

The `activePressSharedValue` prop has a type of `ChartPressValue | ChartPressValue[]`, where `ChartPressValue` is an object generated from the `useChartPressSharedValue` hook.

### `renderOutside`

The `renderOutside` prop is identical to [the `children` prop](#children-required) in form, but it will render elements at the root of the Skia canvas (not inside of a clipping group). This allows you to render elements outside of the bounds of any axes that you have configured.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![Diagram of where renderOutside renders to](./assets/renderOutside.jpg)

</div>

## Render Function Fields

The `CartesianChart` `children` and `renderOutside` render functions both have a single argument that is an object with the following fields.

### `points`

An object of the form `Record<YKey, PointsArray>` where `YKey` is the type of the `yKeys` argument to the `CartesianChart` component and `PointsArray` is of the following shape:

```ts
type PointsArray = {
  x: number;
  xValue: number;
  y: number;
  yValue: number;
}[];
```

This object exposes the raw data in a transformed form for drawing on the Skia canvas.

As an example, if you pass `yKeys={["highTmp"]}` to a `<CartesianChart />` element, then `points.highTmp` will give you an array of points to either use directly for drawing purposes, or to pass to an e.g. [`Line`](./line/line.md) or [`Bar`](./bar/bar.md) component.

### `canvasSize`

An object of the shape `{ width: number; height: number; }` that represents the overall size of the Skia canvas that the chart renders on.

### `chartBounds`

An object of the shape `{ left: number; right: number; bottom: number; top: number; }` that represents the Skia coordinates of the bounding box for the "drawing area" of the chart (that is, the area that sits inside of the chart's axes).

### `xScale`

A [`d3-scale` linear scale](https://d3js.org/d3-scale/linear) used for mapping the raw data's independent variable onto the canvas's horizontal axis.

### `yScale`

A [`d3-scale` linear scale](https://d3js.org/d3-scale/linear) used for mapping the raw data's dependent variables onto the canvas's vertical axis.

Commit message:

Add `AxisProps` documentation.  (#91)
* Update cartesian-chart.md

* Added Tailwind with responsive styles.

* Remove tailwind base to prevent reset.

* Update README.md

* Update cartesian-chart.md

website/docs/cartesian-chart.md, after:

# Cartesian Chart

The `CartesianChart` component is the core component of `victory-native`. Its core responsibilities are:

- accepting raw data that you'd eventually like to chart, as well as some configuration around charting (such as options for axes, etc.)
- transforming that raw data into a format that can be easily accessed and used for charting with other `victory-native` components.

## Example

The example below shows a basic use of the `CartesianChart`.

```tsx
import { View } from "react-native";
import { CartesianChart, Line } from "victory-native";
import { useFont } from "@shopify/react-native-skia";
// 👇 import a font file you'd like to use for tick labels
import inter from "../assets/inter-medium.ttf";

function MyChart() {
  const font = useFont(inter, 12);

  return (
    <View style={{ height: 300 }}>
      <CartesianChart
        data={DATA} // 👈 specify your data
        xKey="day" // 👈 specify data key for x-axis
        yKeys={["lowTmp", "highTmp"]} // 👈 specify data keys used for y-axis
        axisOptions={{ font }} // 👈 we'll generate axis labels using given font.
      >
        {/* 👇 render function exposes various data, such as points. */}
        {({ points }) => (
          // 👇 and we'll use the Line component to render a line path.
          <Line points={points.highTmp} color="red" strokeWidth={3} />
        )}
      </CartesianChart>
    </View>
  );
}

const DATA = Array.from({ length: 31 }, (_, i) => ({
  day: i,
  lowTmp: 20 + 10 * Math.random(),
  highTmp: 40 + 30 * Math.random(),
}));
```

## Props

### `data` (required)

An array of objects to be used as data points for the chart.

### `xKey` (required)

A `string` value indicating the _key_ of each `data[number]` object to be used on the independent (x) axis for charting. E.g. `"day"` if you want to use the `"day"` field of the data points for the x-axis.

### `yKeys` (required)

A `string[]` array of string indicating the _keys_ of each `data[number]` object to be used on the dependent (y) axis for charting. E.g. `yKeys={["lowTmp", "highTmp"]}` if you want to chart both high and low temperatures on the y-axis and those values have keys of `lowTmp` and `highTmp` respectively.

This prop accepts an _array_ of strings because the `CartesianChart` supports multiple ranges (e.g. plotting both high and low temperatures), and the `CartesianChart` component needs to know about all of the slices of the dataset you plan to plot (to e.g. determine the total range of the chart).

### `children` (required)

The `children` prop is a render function whose sole argument is an object that exposes transformed data for you to use in your drawing operations. For example, the `children` render function's argument has a `points` field that exposes a version of your input data that's transformed to be plotted on the Canvas (see [the Example section](#example) above for an example of this).

**See the [Render Function Fields](#render-function-fields) section for an outline of all of the available fields on the render function argument.**

The `children` function will render its Skia elements inside of [a clipping group](https://shopify.github.io/react-native-skia/docs/group/#clipping-operations) that sit inside of the bounds of the charts axes, so that your charting elements do not overflow outside of your axes.

### `padding`

A `number` or an object of shape `{ left?: number; right?: number; top?: number; bottom?: number; }` that specifies that padding between the outer bounds of the Skia canvas and where the charting bounds will occur.

For example, passing `padding={{ left: 20, bottom: 20 }}` will add 20 Density Independent Pixels (DIPs) of space to the bottom and left of the chart, but have the chart "bleed" to the right and top. Passing `padding={20}` will add 20 DIPs of space to all sides.

### `domainPadding`

A `number` or an object of shape `{ left?: number; right?: number; top?: number; bottom?: number; }` that specifies that padding between the outer bounds of the _charting area_ (e.g. where the axes lie) and where chart elements will be plotted.

For example, passing `padding={{ left: 20, right: 20 }}` will add 20 DIPs of space between the edges of the chart and where the line/bar/area graph will start.

### `axisOptions`

The `axisOptions` is an optional prop allows you to configure the axes and grid of the chart. If it is not present then the chart will not render any axes or grid. It is an object of the following **optional** properties:

|      Property       | Type                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|:-------------------:|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|     **`font`**      | <pre>SkFont &#124; null</pre>                                                                          | Defines the font to be used for axis labels. If not provided, then no labels will be rendered. This font object is typically returned from Skia’s `useFont` hook.                                                                                                                                                                  |
|   **`tickCount`**   | <pre>number &#124; {<br />  x: number; <br />  y: number;<br />}</pre>                                 | Defines the number of ticks to be rendered on both axes, or if provided an object, specific to x and y. If not provided, then the chart will attempt to choose a reasonable number of ticks based on the size of the chart.                                                                                                        |
|   **`lineColor`**   | <pre>string &#124; {<br />  grid: string;<br />  frame: string;<br />}</pre>                           | Defines the color of the grid and axis lines. It can either apply to both or be customized to each. It will default to `black` if none is provided.                                                                                                                                                                                |
|   **`lineWidth`**   | <pre>number &#124; {<br />  grid: number;<br />  frame: number;<br />}</pre>                           | Defines the width of the grid and axis lines. It can either apply to both or be customized to each. It will default to `Stylesheet.hairlineWidth` if none is provided.                                                                                                                                                             |
|  **`labelColor`**   | <pre>string &#124; {<br />  x: string;<br />  y: string;<br />}</pre>                                  | Defines the color of the axis labels. It can either apply to both or be customized to each. It will default to `black` if none is provided.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|  **`labelOffset`**  | <pre>number &#124; {<br />  x: number;<br />  y: number;<br />}</pre>                                  | Defines the offset of the axis labels. It can either apply to both or be customized to each. It will default to `0` if none is provided.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **`labelPosition`** | <pre>AxisLabelPosition &#124; {<br />  x: AxisLabelPosition;<br />  y: AxisLabelPosition;<br />}</pre> | Defines the position of the axis labels. It can either apply to both or be customized to each. It will default to `outset` if none is provided.<br /><br />&#9432; **`AxisLabelPosition`** is an enum with the values: <code>'inset &#124; 'outset'</code>.                                                                        |
|   **`axisSide`**    | <pre>{<br />  x: XAxisSide;<br />  y: YAxisSide;<br />}</pre>                                          | Defines the side of the chart that the `x` and `y` axis is rendered on. It will default to `left` and `bottom` if none is provided. <br /><br />&#9432; **`XAxisSide`** is an enum with the values: <code>'top' &#124; 'bottom'</code>.<br/>&#9432; **`YAxisSide`** is an enum with the values: <code>'left' &#124; 'right'</code> |
| **`formatXLabel`**  | <pre>(label: T[XK]) => string</pre>                                                                    | Defines a function provide customization for formatting the x-axis labels. It will default to just returning the value as a string if no function is provided.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| **`formatYLabel`**  | <pre>(label: T[YK]) => string</pre>                                                                    | Defines a function provide customization for formatting the y-axis labels. It will default to just returning the value as a string if no function is provided.                                                                                                                                                                     |

### `activePressSharedValue`

The `activePressSharedValue` prop allows you to pass in Reanimated `SharedValue`s that will be used to track the user's "press" gesture on the chart. This is generally used for creating some sort of tooltip/active value indicator. See the [Basic Tooltip Guide](./guides/basic-tooltip.md) for more in-depth information on how to use this prop.

The `activePressSharedValue` prop has a type of `ChartPressValue | ChartPressValue[]`, where `ChartPressValue` is an object generated from the `useChartPressSharedValue` hook.

### `renderOutside`

The `renderOutside` prop is identical to [the `children` prop](#children-required) in form, but it will render elements at the root of the Skia canvas (not inside of a clipping group). This allows you to render elements outside of the bounds of any axes that you have configured.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![Diagram of where renderOutside renders to](./assets/renderOutside.jpg)

</div>

## Render Function Fields

The `CartesianChart` `children` and `renderOutside` render functions both have a single argument that is an object with the following fields.

### `points`

An object of the form `Record<YKey, PointsArray>` where `YKey` is the type of the `yKeys` argument to the `CartesianChart` component and `PointsArray` is of the following shape:

```ts
type PointsArray = {
  x: number;
  xValue: number;
  y: number;
  yValue: number;
}[];
```

This object exposes the raw data in a transformed form for drawing on the Skia canvas.

As an example, if you pass `yKeys={["highTmp"]}` to a `<CartesianChart />` element, then `points.highTmp` will give you an array of points to either use directly for drawing purposes, or to pass to an e.g. [`Line`](./line/line.md) or [`Bar`](./bar/bar.md) component.

### `canvasSize`

An object of the shape `{ width: number; height: number; }` that represents the overall size of the Skia canvas that the chart renders on.

### `chartBounds`

An object of the shape `{ left: number; right: number; bottom: number; top: number; }` that represents the Skia coordinates of the bounding box for the "drawing area" of the chart (that is, the area that sits inside of the chart's axes).

### `xScale`

A [`d3-scale` linear scale](https://d3js.org/d3-scale/linear) used for mapping the raw data's independent variable onto the canvas's horizontal axis.

### `yScale`

A [`d3-scale` linear scale](https://d3js.org/d3-scale/linear) used for mapping the raw data's dependent variables onto the canvas's vertical axis.
